Documenting saving plugin calls (#238)
ionic-team/capacitor-site: pages/docs/v3/core-apis/saving-calls.md

---
title: Persisting Plugin Calls
description: How to save plugin calls in Capacitor
---

# Saving Plugin Calls

> In most cases, a plugin method will get invoked to perform a task and can finish immediately. But more complicated situations can require additional consideration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, a plugin method will get invoked to perform a task and can finish immediately. There are situations where keeping the plugin call available can be helpful.
```

## Overview

> There are two reasons you might need a plugin call (`CAPPluginCall` on iOS or `PluginCall` on Android) to persist outside of the method in your plugin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two reasons you might need a plugin call (`CAPPluginCall` on iOS or `PluginCall` on Android) to persist outside of the method in your plugin are:
```

> 1. To perform an asynchronous action, such as requesting permission from the system to access a protected API.

Reviewer 2: With the new permission APIs this is no longer needed, right @carlpoole?

Author: I was trying to think of an async API that's involves a common task across platforms. But it's a good point that permissions are not the best choice with the recent changes to Android. Can you think of a different API to use as an example?

Reviewer 2: network requests?

2. To provide repeated updates back to the web environment, such as streaming live geolocation data.

> These two reasons overlap but they are not identical. Specifically, the difference is whether or not a call will need to complete (`resolve()` or `reject()`) more than once. The Capacitor bridge has to record each call that is made from JavaScript to native code so that it can match the result to the correct pending promise when the plugin returns it, and the default behavior is to erase this bookkeeping after a call completes once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a difference in handling saved calls depending on if you will need to complete (`resolve()` or `reject()`) more than once. The Capacitor bridge records each call that is made from JavaScript to native code so that it can match the result to the correct pending promise when the plugin returns it, and the default behavior is to erase this bookkeeping after a call completes once.
```
